<h2><a href=https://www.codewars.com/kata/68b146767d888574fbb359ac/train/javascript target="_blank">Correct the velocity measurements</a></h2><h3>6 kyu</h3><h1 id="overview">Overview</h1><p>You, a police officer, have been tasked with catching speeding drivers on your town's roads. You were given access to the following equipment:</p><ul><li>A clock</li><li>A LIDAR gun which tells you the distance to (but not speed of) a given object</li></ul><p>As you set about your duties, your first thought was to measure a car's distance from yourself twice, divide by the time between measurements, and calculate its speed that way. Simple physics! Two crafty criminals, however, challenge you in court:</p><blockquote><p><strong>Criminal #1</strong>: But you were walking toward me at the time! That means you actually measured the sum of our speeds, not just mine!</p><p><strong>Criminal #2</strong>: But I wasn't driving directly toward you! Your measurement is subject to cosine error!</p></blockquote><p>The judge agrees. Using just distance-to-target over time is insufficient if the one doing the measuring is moving, or if the target's trajectory is not directly towards/away from the observer. Your department begrudgingly shells out for another two pieces of equipment:</p><ul><li>A compass</li><li>A GPS</li></ul><p>You now have what you need to catch these dastardly, mathematically-adept speedsters.</p><h1 id="the-task">The Task</h1><p>Given two sets of <code>reading</code>s from the equipment specified above, calculate the speed of the target.</p><h2 id="inputs">Inputs</h2><p>Two dictionaries in the following form</p><pre><code>reading = {  'time': A float, the time in seconds since some arbitrary epoch when the reading was taken  'distance': A float, the distance in meters to the target of your LIDAR  'angle': A float, the angle in radians between the positive x-axis and the target relative to the observer*  'position': A 2-tuple of floats, the observer's coordinates in meters from some arbitrary origin}</code></pre><h2 id="outputs">Outputs</h2><p>The target's speed in m/s</p><h2 id="example">Example</h2><p>Let's say you're in your police car at <code>(0, 0)</code> and your clock reads <code>0</code>s. You see a (putative) speedster north of you, along the positive Y axis <code>30</code>m away. Taking a reading of your instruments, you see:</p><pre><code>reading_a = {  'time': 0,  'distance': 30,  'angle': pi/2,  'position': (0, 0)}</code></pre><p>after <code>5</code> seconds, your squad car has rolled <code>10</code>m to the west, putting you at <code>(-10, 0)</code>. The offender is now due east and <code>50</code>m away; your measurements are:</p><pre><code>reading_b = {  'time': 5,  'distance': 50,  'angle': 0,  'position': (-10, 0)}</code></pre><p>From the information above, you're able to deduce that the other party moved <code>50</code>m in <code>5</code>s, and so they were moving at <code>10</code>m/s.</p><h2 id="constraintsassumptionsnotes">Constraints/assumptions/notes</h2><ul><li>* In other words, if you (the observer) are looking along the positive x-axis, how many radians must you turn anti-clockwise until you are facing the target? This will always be 0 &lt;= <code>angle</code> &lt; 2π.</li><li>The world is a 2D plane (harharhar).</li><li>Time between measurements will always be &gt;= 0.1s, with the second reading coming later than the first.</li><li>The target and observer will always be moving at &lt;= 100m/s relative to the world.</li><li>Results are validated +-0.01m/s.</li></ul>